In Angular's history, there have been
a few moments where we've done things that
has led the industry and set patterns
that will be used by other teams and
other frameworks because they
were just good ideas, right?
We had that before.
One of the first things was our two-way
data binding in the very beginning with
Angular.js.
It was incredible when
you saw an input field, and
then the data changing on the screen,
and there was only one line of code.
Why was it so incredible?
Because at that time, we all could only
imagine all the lines of code that
it would take with jQuery, and everything
you had to do just to get that to work.
And we came out like, here,
ngModel, and just walked away.
And then it was like, whoa,
this is amazing, right?
And so this with Deferrable Views is
another one of those moments that I think
all frameworks are just gonna adopt
because of what this gets to do.
This is a way for
us to do lazy loading, okay?
Now, lazy loading is a way to
keep your initial bundle smaller,
meaning what gets shipped to the clients,
that size matters, because
you have clients that can be on maybe
a device that has low bandwidth, right?
You might be in a rural area where you
have an iPhone, but you got no signal,
right?
Or you're like using satellite,
there are all kinds of different
bandwidth restrictions or constraints that
you need to have smaller bundles for.
Well, lazy loading helps you do that.
Now, when you ever done lazy loading
before, you may have done it with
some like fancy configuration at your
router level, where you take parts of
your application and then you say don't
ship this part, don't ship this route.
What if I told you that with Deferrable
Views you can take parts of your
component, the template and
say, don't ship this line,
don't ship this part of the component
until something meaningful happens.
And what if I told you do all
that work in the template?
Well, I wanna say I said it was special.
Let me show you what I mean.
Check out this template.
Okay, this is a template.
I want to load the recommended
movies component only if someone
interacts with the trigger.
Check this out.
So, you use the @defer syntax.
So this is saying defer the loading
of whatever's in my curly braces,
defer that loading until
the interaction happens.
Why does my interaction says trigger,
what does that trigger?
Okay, now we're really cooking.
Because this trigger is what's called
a template variable in Angular, so
you can just like, say hey,
I wanna reference to this button.
Okay hash tag and give it a name and
then you get a reference to the element.
It works on any element.
There's just so you can do an Angular.
I don't know, pretty cool.
All right, so if someone interacts
with the trigger, then what happens?
The recommended movies load.
When I say load,
I don't mean it appears on the screen.
I mean the request for
the data for the actual packets
happens cuz it is not shipped
with your code, you see.
I know, just stay with me, I know,
friends at home, I know some of y'all just
have to wear a hat so your brain
doesn't blow up like my god.
Okay, just stick with me.
When I'm waiting for it to load, because
it has to make the HTTP request again,
right for that code,
I can set a loading screen,
whatever I want it to be,
whatever I want this to be.
Any HTML, any component.
Something goes wrong,
I have an error that I can show as well.
And while I'm loading it, while it is
in flight, I can also show something.
This is all in a template.
There is no special back end coding.
There is nothing fancy that I've done.
This is all in its simple level, but we're
gonna demonstrate this, don't you worry.
Because some of you are like,
man, that seems good, Mark, but
what if I wanted to do custom things.
I wanna make my own triggers.
Fine, when the count or
some arbitrary expression that can be
defined as truthy or falsy,
right, happens, load it then.
So that means that count came from where?
That's from my application class.
So that means it's programmatic at
that point, that's what cooking.
We are, [SOUND] I smell so good, plug it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] So
there are a whole bunch of triggers.
When the browser sends the idle message,
that's the thing that browser can do.
I can load some components then or
I can do it immediately, right,
once the other stuff is rendered,
I'm sorry.
Once this thing gets
rendered on the screen,
cuz you know how browsers render, right?
Once it hits this one, okay,
fine then start the fetching, but
don't fetch it before that, okay?
Wait some time.
Maybe I know that our service at
work is a little slow because it's
like a legacy service written in COBOL and
it takes a little bit time,
I don't wanna call it yet.
Fine, give some time, say one minute,
two seconds, whatever, put your time in there.
Or maybe I don't want to happen
until you scroll the page and
then something enters the viewport.
Then I'll load cuz they never scroll down,
why would I load the component?
Why load 150 comments if
they're never gonna look at it?
[SOUND] I know, I know, or that you saw
the interaction like that's like a click,
right?
You can do that.
Or let's say you hover over area of
your screen that you can define.
You can go even further.
There's a difference between lazy
loading and prefetching and displaying.
So, lazy load, you can just do this whole
thing where you're like, all right,
when it's time to load it,
load it, then display.
Or what you can do is say,
you know what, start getting it,
but I'm not ready for you to show it yet.
But start getting it at my condition,
whatever my condition is.
So then I can say, load on interaction or
if they haven't interacted yet, but
the browser has been done with everything
else, start prefetching the code.
Get started, get a head start or
a custom trigger.
Okay, this one will do, cuz I think you
have to see it to believe it because
what I'm describing is kinda wait,
what, I kinda get it, but, Mark,
what are you talking about?
Let me show you.
So we're gonna skip to 13.
Bar's closing down, all right.
So you can come with 13 with me if
you want, but I'm just gonna do this.
So I'm gonna run this one.
Okay, all right.
All right, all right,
all right, all right.
Deferable Views, all right,
so what's the task in here?
We got some tasks.
We're just gonna add a defer block and
not just put it in here.
See, this was meant to be playful.
So you just experiment this on
your own time, the code is there.
But I want you to just try stuff out.
We'll do a couple of these, and then we'll
start our march toward the end, man.
Look at this page.
This looks amazing, was a whole bunch of,
this came from the Internet, right,
meaning like I made HTTP requests,
just so you can see it.
Let's do the network.
Wanna reload this page?
Let's close that out, and
then reload, all right.
I didn't reload.
That's why,
I get that word chucking down like what?
See, posts came from the Internet so
that's not like local.
So this page,
depending on the traffic to the site,
could be super slow, right, to load
a bunch of posts can be super slow.
What can we do?
We wanna defer the loading
until we're ready to do it.
And the way I wanna do it is when
you interact with this button,
then I wanna load it.
So let's do that.
All right, so let's get cooking.
So I'm gonna go into app.component.ts.
Okay, now, it's a lot of work to set this
up cuz I wanna dynamically load this code.
Not defer the loading of the call
of saying I only wanna ship
the app post code.
I don't even want it to be shipped to
the browser until I request it.
Okay, let's see if I can do it.
Oh,Mark, do we get enough time for this?
[SOUND] so much, I don't know.
Let me just try, I'm so
stressed, it's so much to write.
Man, what's going on, does that thing,
okay I need the trigger.
I need a trigger.
Okay, I'm done.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's the whole thing.
Now, that's a pretty advanced
scenario that I described to you.
Let me show you how it works.
Okay, so this is everything that came,
in a couple of chunks they came,
platform browser.
We got, I don't see any data,
wait, it was called post.
No data for posts.
Now, check this out.
So I'm gonna clear this,
not refresh, clear it.
I'm gonna click load post.
Look at the order of operation.
First, the chunk of code came.
Okay?
Then the library that Angular
needed to make our code work,
then what happened third?
Data requests have been third.
So that's evidence to you that we
did not ship this code, right?
It did not go to the initial bundle
browser bundle, which is really,
really special.
So here's our data, just proof.
Okay, cool.
Here's our chunk, wait a minute.
This is like the the code that
gets written by our compiler,
as it compiles it so it can be optimized.
So it won't look identical, but
you can see it's our post component.
You see, I'm not lying about that, right?
[LAUGH] There's our fetch
call to go get our data.
So now, that's why I said this is early
on, cuz I know that optimizations
are kinda tricky, cuz people are really
worried about like pre-optimizing.
This isn't really pre-optimizing.
This is just making your app better,
right?
You just throw the defer on there,
it didn't cost you anything.
I didn't set up any configuration.
I did nothing.
I just typed defer.
And I think this is a really good idea,
and I do think that we'll see
even more adoption of this pattern where
you can just block out parts of your
application, just choose any part you
want, and just start wrapping it in defer,
just start having a good old time.
What questions can I answer
about lazy loading with defer?
>> On an error, can you re-trigger it?
>> Good question.
We don't have re-trigger implemented yet,
but that is on our list.
Yes, so question is about what happens
if this messes up, an error is thrown?
Then what do you do?
We, right now,
we can only display something, but
we don't have like a retry yet, but
that's something that's on our list.
Yeah, good question.
Any questions from the chat?
>> Can prototype pollution
happen when lazy loading?
>> Prototype pollution, it depends on
your code for prototype pollution.
That depends on your code.
Like if you're writing code,
that pollutes the prototype, literally,
like you're adding things directly
to the window.object prototype,
then that could happen, but I don't see
it happening just with lazy loading.
No, cuz the same rules apply, the same
scoping and everything still applies.
We're just chunking stuff up for
you and sending it back to you.
>> Is defer something like a promise?
>> Good question.
Is defer something like a promise?
No, because with defer, so what
the problem is you get directly involved.
And then you want to like
respond to the promise, right?
You do like .then() or your async await.
With defer, just at the template level,
where you're just saying
don't load this template.
Until one of these conditions happen.
Now, the default condition
is the browser idle state.
Meaning that all the work on
the main thread has been done.
And then I'm like, okay, then we could
like defer on low, but I'm doing on
interaction which is like on demand
like click, then do something, right.
And there are all those other
triggers that you can do.
Yeah, really good question.